# PyGame

- Pygame extends Python to allow programmers to create windows, show images, recognize mouse movements and clicks, play sounds, more. I.e., it alallows you bto build games and interactive applications in Python.
- Upper left is 0,0. X incrteases to the right. Y increases going down. X and Y always integers
    - `pixelLocation = (3,5)`
- rectange is  (x,y, width, height)
    - `<rectObject> = pygame.Rect(<x>, <y>, <width>, <height>)`
```python
#RGB colors
RED = (255,0,0)
GREEN = (0, 255, 0)
BLUE = (0,0, 255)
BLACK = (0,0,0) #no red, green or blue
WHITE = (255,255,255) #all red, green, blue, 2^8 for each values
DARK_GRAY = (75, 75, 75)
MEDIUM_GRAY = (128, 128, 128)
LIGHT_GRAY = (175, 175, 175)
TEAL = (0, 128, 128) # no red, half-strength green, half-strength blue
YELLOW = (255, 255, 0)
PURPLE = (128, 0, 128)
```

## Event-Driven Programs

- GUIs call for them
- event: something that happens while your program is running that your program wants to or needs to respond to. Most generated by users actions.
- Event-driven GUI program runs constantly in an infinite loop!

- `blit()` from bit block transfer. effectively means draw.
- `<soundVariable> = pygame.mixer.Sound(<patah to sound file>)`
- `<soundVariable>.play()`
- In an OOP environment, the interface is the set of methods in a class and their related parameters--also known as the API. The implementation is the actual code of the methods in the class.
- *callback*: a function or method of an object that is called when a particular action, event, or condition happens.
    - can either add a callBack function or check for the value returned by a call to handleEvent().
    - e.g., `if oButton.handleEvent(event): print('the button was clicked')`
    - alternative is with callbacks. See `pygame-oop/06main_simplebuttoncallback.py`

## Useful Bash

- `pwd` is present working directory
- `find . -name "boing.wav"` #to find a file in subdirectory starting here with name "boing.wav"